Investigate Kubernetes pod CPU usage (#72)
ONSdigital/eq-survey-runner-benchmark: doc/performance-investigations/0011-increase-pod-cpu-allocation/summary.md

# Kubernetes Pod CPU Usage

A number of benchmark tests were carried out to investigate the CPU usage of kubernetes pods, and how this effects Questionnaire Runner.

# Summary

## CPU Allocation

In the k8s cluster, the allocation of CPU cores is as follows:

> - Each node has 3,920 mCPU allocatable.

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning this is when the provisioned machine has 4 cores.

Author: done

- On each node, there is _always_ a minimum of 203 mCPU requested by pods in the `kube-system` namespace, leaving 3,717 mCPU for other pods.

> - 648 mCPU of cores are requested by kube-system pods once per cluster. These can be put on a single node, or split across nodes if there are available CPU cores.

Author: from my testing, and from looking at the stress test data it appears that yes, this is a static request per cluster. Additionally, I did  not see any of the `kube-system` pods use above their requested resource count apart from `fluentd`.

> - 648 mCPU of cores are requested by kube-system pods once per cluster. These can be put on a single node, or split across nodes if there are available CPU cores.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be worth this information to the doc.

## Fluentd Performance

Fluentd pods were observed to be using around 450 mCPU when under sustained load. Their requested cpu time is only 100 mCPU. Metrics gathered during recent stress tests show similar levels of CPU resource usage. Unfortunately, it was not feasible to measure the impact disabling app logging has at the cluster level; all of the tests run with fluentd disabled had multiple `kube-system` pods on Runner nodes. It is likely that that the increase in CPU resource used by fluentd under high load has a negative impact on response times. It may be beneficial to look at fluentd performance tuning.

## Decision

1. Do not increase the runner CPU request.
1. Test environments should use 3 runner pods on 3 nodes rather than the 2 pods that are currently deployed.

> 1. Investigate the feasibility of tuning fluentd.

Reviewer 2: Should one of the decisions be to test different machine types?

> As part of the testing, fluentd pods were observed to be using around 450 mCPU when under sustained load. Their requested cpu time is only 100 mCPU. This means that, when under load, fluentd log forwarding is using roughly half a core of available CPU. Metrics gathered during recent stress tests show the same level of resource usage. Unfortunately, it was not feasible to get a correct comparison of the impact that disabling app logging has at the cluster level, as the tests that were run when fluentd was disabled, all had multiple `kube-system` pods placed on Runner nodes, however, given the impact that we see when 648 mCPU of additional CPU is requested by `kube-system` pods, it is likely that the increased usage by fluentd will have a negative impact. It may be useful to look at ways to tune fluentd to increase its performance.

Reviewer 2: This is a very long sentence!

> Unfortunately, it was not feasible to get a correct comparison of the impact that disabling app logging has at the cluster level, as the tests that were run when fluentd was disabled, all had multiple `kube-system` pods placed on Runner nodes, however, given the impact that we see when 648 mCPU of additional CPU is requested by `kube-system` pods, it is likely that the increased usage by fluentd will have a negative impact.

Author: I'll reword it!

Author: Done

# Kubernetes Pod CPU Usage

A number of benchmark tests were carried out to investigate the CPU usage of kubernetes pods, and how this effects Questionnaire Runner.

# Summary

## CPU Allocation

Our nodes (which are 4 core virtual machines) allocate CPU cores as follows:

- Each node has 3,920 mCPU allocatable.
- On each node, there is _always_ a minimum of 203 mCPU requested by pods in the `kube-system` namespace, leaving 3,717 mCPU for other pods.
- 648 mCPU of cores are requested by kube-system pods once per cluster. These can be put on a single node, or split across nodes if there are available CPU cores.

> - From the testing carried out, it appears that the 648mCPU request is static per Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: This should also mention the stress test. 
```suggestion
- From the testing carried out and previous stress tests, it appears that the 648 mCPU request is static per Kubernetes cluster.
```
